Jesus taught us that Satan
is “the father of the lie.”
We recall that he deceived Eve,
a perfect woman.
He lied about our precious Jehovah.
Now, you’re familiar (many of you)
with Revelation chapter 12.
I invite you to find that
—Revelation chapter 12.
And in this chapter, verses 7 and 8,
it addressed the fact
that “war broke out in heaven.”
But notice
that after he’s kicked out of heaven,
in verse 9 we read:
“So down the great dragon was hurled,
“the original serpent,
the one called Devil and Satan,
“who is misleading
the entire inhabited earth;
“he was hurled down to the earth,
and his angels
were hurled down with him.”
Now, I read it that way specifically,
but what it doesn’t say is
(in the middle part of verse 9):
“Satan, who is [trying to mislead]
the entire inhabited earth.”
No, he “is  misleading
That’s crucial to understand
when we think about the theme of this talk,
not to be misled by imitation peace,
because as “the ruler of the world,”
that’s what he’s out to do—mislead.
In fact, it’s an interesting point
here in 2 Corinthians chapter 11
to appreciate
how he goes about misleading,
or at least it’s addressed here
to serve as a good warning for us.
And an interesting point with the revision
of the New World Translation
(for those of you in the truth before 2013
when it was revised, you’ll remember this)
in verse 14 of 2 Corinthians chapter 11:
“And no wonder,
for Satan himself keeps disguising himself
as an angel of light.”
Now, the New World Translation
used to say before the revision
“[transforms] himself
into an angel of light.”
Well, the very English word “metamorphosis,”
like for a caterpillar transforming
into a beautiful butterfly,
that’s where it comes from,
the Greek language.
And that word was not in verse 14.
No, because Satan can’t transform himself
into “an angel of light”
(so it’s an improved translation),
but he does disguise.
He’s a masquerader.
And he does that with the subject of peace.
His world offers a sort of peace,
but it’s imitation peace.
Now, Jesus is distinguished,
though, with the peace that he gives.
And if you’ll follow along here
in John chapter 14,
he himself explains it to us.
And we treasure the Gospel accounts,
verse 27: “I leave you peace;
“I give you my peace.
“I do not give it to you
the way the world gives it.
Do not let your hearts be troubled
nor let them shrink out of fear.”
So Jesus gives us his peace, see.
And the peace that Jesus gives us,
it’s this inner calm once you know
the truth and Jesus gives us the peace.
We have this confidence that he loves us
and Jehovah loves us,
so that we enjoy a good,
peaceful relationship with them
and a good conscience.
And we look forward to the Kingdom
removing all war and death.
Now, a point to make here:
Satan wants us to trade
the peace that Jesus gives
for his imitation peace
that he has advertised in the world.
Now, in this talk,
we will consider
three forms of imitation peace
and why the peace
that Jesus gives is superior.
The first one has to do with material things
—how they’ll not bring true peace.
And to help us with that,
turn to Matthew chapter 4,
and we’ll be referring to this chapter
throughout this particular talk
about not being misled by imitation peace.
And this one
is connected with material things
—how they don’t bring true peace—
in the example Jesus sets forth here.
So in Matthew chapter 4:
“Then Jesus was led by the spirit
“up into the wilderness
to be tempted by the Devil.
“After he had fasted
for 40 days and 40 nights,
“he felt hungry.
“And the Tempter approached and said to him:
“‘If you are a son of God,
tell these stones to become loaves of bread.’
“But he answered: ‘It is written:
“‘“Man must live, not on bread alone,
but on every word that comes
from Jehovah’s mouth.”’”
Isn’t that a beautiful rebuttal?
See, Jesus refused to trade
his peace for material things
(in this case, bread),
even though he was hungry.
So serving Jehovah was more important to him
than material things, see.
In the world, they have this thinking,
‘Well, you need
a certain amount of money to retire,’
and they’re constantly
focused on material things
—not Jesus, see.
It’s superior peace from Jehovah God.
So it’s only temporary anyway,
the material benefits that people seek
and pursue throughout their lives.
Now we can enjoy true contentment
because Jehovah God is going to care for us.
We know that many have
personal experiences to prove that.
Now, in the following video,
see what a brother learned
about the so-called peace
that the world promises.
As a family, we were doing
very well spiritually.
We did family worship, went preaching,
and went to the meetings together.
After some time, we began
to encounter financial problems.
At times, we did not even have money
to buy food
for each day.
Many people in our area
were going to South Africa
to provide basic needs for their families.
So I decided to go as well,
leaving behind my wife
to take care of our seven children.
This affected me spiritually
because I did not know the language,
I was unable to preach,
and I did not benefit from the meetings.
Being so far from my family
caused me to neglect
my responsibility as a family head.
As a result, my family grew weak spiritually
and we all missed each other very much.
I realized that I had made
a wrong decision going abroad.
My conscience started to trouble me greatly.
Then I remembered the example of Baruch
found at Jeremiah 45:5.
Baruch may have wanted
to pursue material riches as I had.
When he was helped, he returned.
I decided then to put Jehovah in first place
instead of searching for material things.
So I started to make changes to go home
and help my family spiritually.
When I left South Africa
and reached the border of Malawi
(after leaving my family
for about six months),
I felt great happiness in my heart,
and I am still happy till now.
Studying the Bible has helped me.
We still encounter financial problems,
but I remember that in Satan’s world,
there is nowhere we can go
and have no problems.
Now I serve as an elder.
My family is progressing spiritually.
And this makes me very happy,
because my relationship
with Jehovah is strong.
Yes, he learned a hard lesson.
He goes to South Africa
—meetings interrupted and no field service.
And then he remembers Baruch,
secretary for Jeremiah.
And he returns to be with his family,
putting the Kingdom first,
and we appreciate him
being truthful and sharing that experience.
That’s imitation peace,
going after material things.
Now this next one, it’s quite interesting.
So pay close attention
because there may be some
listening who need this counsel.
Satan’s world says that we
can ignore Bible standards
and that we might need
to ignore some of them to gain peace of mind.
Here are two examples
that we’re going to analyze in this talk.
A person may reason
that marrying an unbeliever
or obtaining an unscriptural divorce
will make life easier.
And they start reasoning this way,
‘I just want to get married,
and he’s an unbeliever,
but he’s a nice person.’
Things like that go on
with the treacherous heart.
Again, we go to the example
of our Lord and Master, Jesus.
We’re going to read verses 5-7 of Matthew 4:
“Then the Devil took him
along into the holy city,
“and he stationed him
on the battlement of the temple
“and said to him:
“‘If you are a son of God,
throw yourself down,
“‘for it is written:
“‘“He will give his angels
a command concerning you,”
“‘and, “They will carry you on their hands,
“so that you may not strike
your foot against a stone.”’
“Jesus said to him: ‘Again, it is written:
“You must not put Jehovah
your God to the test.”’”
See, Jesus made that very clear.
He was going to be obedient to his Father
and wasn’t going to worry about being testy
with such an experience
as the Devil proposed there.
So obedience
—Jesus twice (in a moment we’ll read
another one) said: “It is written.”
He sticks with the Scriptures
—Jehovah’s thinking—
and he refused to disobey Jehovah.
Now here’s the question,
Why is the peace that Jesus gives
superior to the pursuit
of unscriptural solutions to our problems?
Let that sink in.
Why is the peace that Jesus gives
superior to the pursuit
of unscriptural solutions to our problems?
For example, marrying an unbeliever
—that will likely bring
(and it has happened time after time)
that person greater pain
than the longing
they felt when they were single.
I’ve personally seen that
all too many times in various congregations
that I’ve had the privilege to serve in.
You see, the other one
is an unscriptural divorce.
It often leads to immoral conduct.
It certainly leads to a troubled conscience,
emotional damage
and, of course, a loss of privileges.
Now, this is very important to keep in mind.
It’s true that with two imperfect individuals
married to each other,
well, there are going to be difficulties
and there are going to be challenges.
But stop and think about this:
When you’re having difficulties,
don’t forget that marriage
is a sacred arrangement.
The world totally has forgotten that.
So Jehovah will strengthen
both to make a success.
You have to keep that in mind:
Jehovah will strengthen and help
so that you can succeed
because this is his sacred arrangement.
And the Devil has been attacking
the family arrangement
all through the last days of this system,
and he’s intensifying it
as he gets closer
to being thrown into the abyss.
Now, in the following video,
notice the results
of pursuing imitation peace.
Newly married life came with a lot
of unexpected challenges.
You dream about the way
your marriage will go,
but then the reality is quite different.
All we ever did was argue,
or we wouldn’t speak to one another.
We never ever went to the elders.
We just didn’t want to bother them.
We just felt, you know,
we needed to figure it out ourselves.
We decided that if the house sold,
then we would separate.
The separation wasn’t a good thing,
because in some respects
it made things worse.
It did have an impact on the boys.
They started acting out.
They got into some trouble
with the police one time.
And there was a loneliness
because you’ve gotten married,
and now you don’t have that,
and you’re by yourself.
And the same old routine
went on where you’re
cooking and cleaning
and doing laundry and working.
I felt sick to my stomach.
I had a hard time getting up every morning
and facing the world.
At that point, I felt that I needed
to have the elders help out a little bit.
I did pray for Jehovah’s help to direct me,
and I kept wondering
why Jehovah wasn’t really
answering my prayers.
But I kind of realize now
that it was because we were separated.
The expectations of the separation
were not at all what I was thinking.
I reflected on the marriage vows.
One of the things I thought
about was a sister in our congregation.
She was married to an unbeliever,
and then she learned the truth.
And he was so violent.
He would beat her; he would burn her books;
he would burn her clothes.
He did not allow her children
to attend the meetings.
And I thought about the problems
that Darrel and I had.
And I thought:
‘Well, Darrel is a kind person.
He’s never done that.’
And I thought:
‘You know, this is something
‘that we need to really work on.
‘We need to really put forth the effort
‘to start applying Bible principles
‘to put Jehovah first in our life
so that we can bring our marriage
back in union with Jehovah.’
I realized that it wasn’t what I wanted,
but it was what Jehovah wanted.
There was just no other choice.
Jehovah wasn’t going to bless us
unless we got back together.
When we got back together,
our marriage was still a work in progress.
You can’t have
a perfect marriage in this world,
but you can sure make it better
when you put Jehovah first.
We enjoyed the feelings
we had toward each other.
I felt closer to Debbie.
Debbie and I
have been married now for 48 years.
Separation does not make
anything better at all.
If you even have an inkling of love
for one another,
you want to work on that,
and you want to make it bloom
so that Jehovah can bless it.
The blessings have been endless.
Our children are all doing
fantastic in the truth.
Jehovah said:
“Taste and see that [He] is good.”
So we’ve got to do that.
We really appreciated this couple sharing
their experience with the brotherhood.
He learned, you know.
They were always arguing,
and that’s all they
did was argue, argue, argue.
It affected their children.
They decided to separate
and finally have peace.
‘I don’t have to be around her,’
or ‘I don’t have to be around him.’
But then he realized
his relationship with Jehovah
was being interfered with here,
and he went to the elders.
His prayers were affected.
The things he noticed
—he was honest about that.
And our precious sister
was so nice to honestly explain.
She said what she learned
was that ‘this is not about me;
it’s about Jehovah.’
When you finally come to that realization,
Jehovah will strengthen you
to enjoy peace with your marriage partner.
Now, the next one, I never tire of speaking
about these particular couple of verses
or reading about it or hearing
another brother give a talk about it.
See, here’s what’s coming soon.
Turn with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5.
And many of you are going, ‘Oh, yeah, I know
what he’s going to read about.’
And this is one of the prophecies
that is yet to be fulfilled.
So it’s just invigorating
to know that soon
here’s what’s going to happen
—1 Thessalonians chapter 5,
verses 2 and 3:
“For you yourselves know very well
“that Jehovah’s day
is coming exactly as a thief in the night.
“Whenever it is that they are saying,
“‘Peace and security!’
“then sudden destruction
is to be instantly on them,
“just like birth pains on a pregnant woman,
and they will by no means escape.”
Yes, see, “Jehovah’s day”
—this has to do with the day
of the outbreak of the great tribulation
when Babylon the Great is destroyed
and Armageddon finishes it off.
In this context, that’s “Jehovah’s day.”
And what happens before then
is this proclamation, “peace and security!”
Will religious leaders be involved?
Well, they’re part of Satan’s system;
that’s very possible.
We’ll have to wait and see.
Will it be one announcement
or a series of announcements?
That we don’t know.
But this is coming.
And those who are staying close to Jehovah
and enjoying the peace
from him and his Son, Jesus,
will not be deceived
by this imitation proclamation of peace
—imitation peace.
And again, back in Matthew chapter 4,
we’re going to see how Jesus handled
this type of test from the Devil
and what we learn from it here
in verses 8-11 of Matthew chapter 4.
“Again the Devil took him [in verse 8]
“along to an unusually high mountain
“and showed him all the kingdoms
of the world and their glory.
“And he said to him:
“‘All these things I will give you
“if you fall down
and do an act of worship to me.’
“Then Jesus said to him [without hesitation]:
“‘Go away, Satan!
“‘For it is written:
“It is Jehovah your God you must worship,
and it is to him alone
you must render sacred service.”’
“Then the Devil left him,
and look! angels came
and began to minister to him.”
Right away, a third time: “It is written.”
Jesus was having nothing to do
with this offer of the kingdoms
—this imitation peace.
‘You’ll have all the glory and rule.’
And it’s always boggled my mind
that this one who knew
Jesus in his prehuman existence
would have the audacity to try to get Jesus
to bow down and worship him.
It shows you that he’s obviously insane.
Now, he wouldn’t allow it either
when they tried to make him an earthly king.
Jesus wasn’t having any part of that.
They were thinking he could bring them peace.
But Jesus said there’s no peace
except by Jehovah’s way.
And the peace from God’s Kingdom
is so superior
to anything they could try to come up with
—their imitation peace.
Here’s why.
Think about this:
Jesus will remove the Devil.
Jesus will remove human rulership.
Jesus will remove sin.
So the earth’s peace
will never again be disturbed.
And I appreciate very much
that he’s going to get rid of all problems,
and that includes undoing all causes of pain
—and not just physical pain,
emotional pain as well.
It’s wonderful to look forward to that time
with that beautiful peace
from our precious Father,
Jehovah, and his Son, Jesus.
Now, in the following video,
see what convinced this sister
not to believe the world’s promises of peace.
My father always taught me
that we needed God in our life
in order for there to be peace.
And he always wanted to know,
Can Christians go to war?
How is this consistent
with the Gospel of Jesus Christ?
But the pastor could never give us an answer,
and so I thought I’d have to look
to politics to find it.
A lot of peace movements
were being formed at that time,
so I joined one of them.
We decided where
the protest marches would be
and which pamphlets we would use.
But after the protests were over,
everyone was so excited
and they all started applauding
and cheering for the leaders.
I thought:
‘That’s not what I wanted.
‘I don’t want to honor people.
‘I want to have world peace.
And that still hasn’t happened yet.’
Then I started to feel very alone,
and it made me feel unsafe in this world.
With no peace in sight,
I thought,
‘What is the purpose of life?’
While visiting friends for coffee,
I saw a man I’d never met before.
My friends told me he wanted
to talk to us about the Bible.
So I asked him:
“Sir, what do you think?
Can Christians join the military?”
And the man said,
“No, that’s not allowed
because the Bible says
you should ‘love your [enemy].’”
It made me think
about what my father always said
—that we need God to bring peace.
Then a really nice lady came to my door,
and she had an orange book in her hand.
And it said:
True Peace and Security.
After reading it, I thought:
‘This is it!
This is the organization
that truly wants peace.’
So I went to those involved
in the peace movement.
I told them that I believe
that God will change this world
into a beautiful earth
where there’ll be true peace.
They all looked at me
like I had lost my mind.
I was so happy with my new life.
I felt like I was part of a family
who truly cared about one another
and really wanted peace with each other.
Isaiah 14:7 had a major impact on my life
because there God promises
a calm and peaceful world.
Wasn’t that nice how she learned?
She’d looked to politics and protests
for world peace.
Obviously, she was sincere.
But she learned that’s all imitation peace.
True peace and security
comes from Jehovah God.
So wrapping it up with these
three different types
of imitation peace
that we’ve emphasized,
we want to encourage you
in these last minutes
to safeguard the peace
that Jesus has given you.
In John chapter 14
(you know this,
but I want you to really focus
on a particular point), in verse 6:
“Jesus said to him:
“‘I am the way and the truth and the life.
No one comes to the Father
except through me.’”
Isn’t that beautiful?
Particularly we want to emphasize
Jesus is “the truth.”
We can trust all of his promises.
He is “the truth.”
He’s going to give us peace
—already has—
and will to a greater extent in the future.
Yes, our Master is “the truth.”
And he gave the early Christians that peace.
The things that they were able to deal
with are just mind-boggling.
As we read the apostle Paul’s experiences
and Peter’s and others’
—the persecution they endured—
they did it,
enduring with joy.
It’s amazing!
It can only be
a supernatural provision of peace.
And just remember,
Jesus will likewise give you
the peace you need now
to keep doing Jehovah’s will
and to make Him happy.
So, brothers, please,
safeguard the gift of peace
that Jesus has given you.
Satan uses this world
to offer you promises of imitation peace.
Do not be misled!
No, rather, “Let the peace of the Christ
rule in your hearts.”
“And show yourselves thankful.”
Yes, through his Son,
Jehovah will bless us all with peace forever!